---
layout: post
title: Hirsi Ali
tags: [politics]
---
Our story starts in Somalia where our heroine is scheduled for an arranged marriage to a man she doesn't want to marry. She escapes to neighboring Kenya where she is under the care of the UNHCR for 10 years as a refugee. Bored of Kenya our heroine flees to The Netherlands claiming political asylum from religious persecution and a marriage she didn't want. Only she neglects to mention the fact she has been living under UNHCR care in Kenya for 10 years. So The Netherlands grants her political asylum and eventually full citizenship. She makes her way through Dutch society and politics eventually becoming a respected member of parliament.



Always controversial, she bets her career on speaking very openly and aggressively against Islamic society and its views on women. She makes a movie titled 'Submission' with famed Dutch filmmaker Theo van Gogh dealing with spousal abuse in Islamic homes. Critics say the movie equates Muslim homes to places of abuse. That there is nothing intrinsically Muslim about beating women and sexism. But Hirsi Ali's argument all along has been that Islamic society and Islam are diametrically opposed to the western concept of individual freedom and female liberation. Feminism and Islam cannot exist in the same society according to Hirsi Ali.

'Submission' earns Theo van Gogh and Hirsi Ali many enemies in the Dutch and Belgian Islamic communities. The public institutions of Islam express anger and argue that this kind of movie is not the way to work towards an integrated society. They claim Theo van Gogh and Hirsi Ali are merely interested in gaining notoriety and that Hirsi Ali is making a career out of telling white Dutch people what they want to hear. But it's clear there are other more violent and radical elements in Dutch Islamic society that view 'Submission' as a direct threat to their faith and an insult to the prophet Mohammed.

Theo van Gogh gets assassinated while riding his bike through Amsterdam by a Moroccan youth. He's stabbed repeatedly with a knife in early morning rush hour in a busy public square. The last stab leaves a note attached to van Gogh detailing the ideology of the youth who killed him. It was clearly a political killing and the note discusses further retribution in retaliation for crimes against Islam such as the film 'Submission'. Dutch society goes into a panic. Is this the end of free speech? How can you speak freely if you can get killed for your words or your artistic expression?

Hirsi Ali goes into hiding fearing for her life. After a few months the Dutch government starts complaining about the costs associated with protecting her. Then her neighbors file a lawsuit because they can't feel safe living next to her. Clearly not 'in hiding' anymore since anyone can find out where her neighbors live, she makes plans to move to the United States and work for the AEI(American Enterprise Institute). I'll get to the AEI in a minute.

Meanwhile the Dutch minister of immigration, Rita Verdonk, decides to revoke Hirsi Ali's Dutch citizenship because she lied on her asylum application. Hirsi Ali didn't mention the fact that she was living in Kenya for 10 years before coming to The Netherlands. It also appears she lied about her arranged wedding and subsequent fallout with her family. She is actually on good terms with her family and sees them regularly. It's very common for people to lie on their asylum application and these weren't particularly egregious infractions. But Minister Verdonk is under pressure to be more strict on immigration so she revokes Hirsi Ali's citizenship. As I write this it is not clear whether or not Hirsi Ali will actually lose her Dutch citizenship. She can still appeal through the courts and eventually the Queen. What is definite is that Hirsi Ali has accelerated her move to the United States and her employment at the AEI.

The American Enterprise Institute is an extremely conservative pro-business Washington think tank dedicated to the advancement of free-market principles worldwide. They were influential in determining our current Administration's policy of 'regime change' in Iraq and count both Newt Gingrich and Lynn Cheney as members. They also have the famous anti-feminist Christina Hoff Sommers on staff. Author of such works as "The War against Boys: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men" and "Who Stole Feminism?: How Women Have Betrayed Women". So why would a self proscribed feminist and protector of women's rights such as Hirsi Ali want to join such an organization?

But then maybe Hirsi Ali is just playing her fiddle to the highest bidder?

The real question is whether Hirsi Ali is genuine. Is she a new styled Muslim Uncle Tom being used by the American right-wing as a tool to conjure up images of violent Islamic men? Or is she a misunderstood feminist and protector of women's rights. With her appointment to the AEI my jury is no longer out. It shouldn't come as a surprise that a conservative American think tank is interested in gaining legitimacy amongst moderate American feminists to court favor for continued middle east incursions. In the same way the right-wing used self hating blacks to demonize African American culture it appears they are interested in doing the same with Islam. And why not? We need a voice to convince us that the Islamic archaic value structure is incompatible with our western views concerning personal liberation. We need a voice to dehumanize the Islamic world and Hirsi Ali wins the prize.

So get ready to see Hirsi Ali on a guest spot on CNN or Bill O'Reilly discussing the terrible crimes against women in the next Arab country we go to war with. Just don't be fooled because it's clear from her past actions that Hirsi Ali couldn't care less about the state of women be they Muslim or whatever.

Sources:
"American Enterprise Institute":http://www.aei.org/
"Christina Hoff Sommers":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Christina_Hoff_Sommers

It's hard to find too much stuff in English on Hirsi Ali.
"Ayaan Hirsi Ali: hero or phony?":http://www.expatica.com/source/site_article.asp?subchannel_id=1&story_id=29962&name=Ayaan+Hirsi+Ali%3A+hero+or+phony%3F
"America to welcome Hirsi Ali with open arms":http://www.expatica.com/source/site_article.asp?subchannel_id=1&story_id=30119&name=America+to+welcome+Hirsi+Ali+with+open+arms
"Reactions to Hirsi Ali Leaving The Netherlands":http://www.expatica.com/source/site_article.asp?channel_id=1&story_id=30005
"Hirsi Ali vows to continue fight against radical Islam":http://www.expatica.com/source/site_article.asp?channel_id=1&story_id=15898
"Interview given to BBC":http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/3322399.stm
